webinar.md, before:

# ウェビナー

## YouTubeチャンネル

- [Australasian Fluid Mechanics Society Inc](https://www.youtube.com/@australasianfluidmechanics6391)
  - [Australasian Fluid Mechanics Society](https://www.afms.org.au/)（オーストラリア流体力学会）が主催するウェビナー
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [LMFL Fluid Mechanics Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/@lmflfluidmechanicswebinar2801)
  - フランスのリールにある[Laboratoire de Mécanique des Fluides de Lille](https://lmfl.cnrs.fr/)が主催するウェビナー
  - おすすめ：_TBA_

## 再生リスト

- [Boulder Summer School 2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8mMEmoXNBfaFV2wA4lDD7j_f2l7BTYIV) 2022
  - アメリカのコロラド州にあるUniversity of Colorado, Boulderで毎年開催されるサマースクール[BSS Physics School](https://boulderschool.yale.edu/)の2022年版"[Hydrodynamics Across Scales](https://boulderschool.yale.edu/2022/boulder-school-2022)"
  - 荒木が参加していました
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Congress A tale of Mathematics & Physics - A tribute to Krzysztof Gawedzki](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLsRJsYVVgsN_AgXJJ0GmmAwi1A07_Rat) 2022
  - [ENS Lyon](https://www.ens-lyon.fr/en/)で開催された spontaneous stochasticityを見出した物理学者Krzysztof Gawedzkiの追悼ワークショップ
  - [[CONGRESS] Gregory Eyink (JHU) - What is Spontaneous Stochasticity and How Far Do We Understand It?](https://youtu.be/L-pTgI0ygxI?si=DUHgvVaiYHFaCRPs)
- [Data-Driven Fluid Mechanics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKCfRadWZy1w7O6B0NnvZpaCy9Kp6zmwC) 2020
  - ベルギーにある[von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics](https://www.vki.ac.be/)が開催したデータ駆動形流体力学のワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Fluids Day 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL04QVxpjcnjjeIf7nQyd1CBXgP_PxqwTc) 2020
  - [International Centre for Theoretical Sciences](https://www.icts.res.in/)が開催したワークショップ
- [Turbulence: Problems at The Interface of Mathematics and Physics (Online)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL04QVxpjcnjiPcslEk4LiGJQv7c20pwn6) 2020
  - [International Centre for Theoretical Sciences](https://www.icts.res.in/)が開催したワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Workshop on Turbulence](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLdDZb3TwJPZ6ZGs1PeZXeRywpffWH9NVZ) 2020
  - [Institute for Advanced Study](https://www.ias.edu/)（プリンストン高等研究所）が主催したオンラインワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [New Challenges in Turbulence Research V](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLo9ufcrEqwWFN9bB03xKpwQKeWRKWDMFT) 2019
  - フランスのモンブランの麓のLes Houchesで開催される[Ecole de Physique des Houches](https://www.houches-school-physics.com/ecole-de-physique-des-houches/home-ecole-les-houches-1066564.kjsp)の2019年版"[New Challenges in Turbulence Research V](https://nctr.eu/index.php/en/2019-edition/96-program-speakers-2019)"
  - これ以外の回の講義資料は[公式サイト](https://nctr.eu/index.php/en/)からダウンロードできる．動画が公開されているのは2019年開催の第5回のみっぽい？
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [田崎晴明によるオンライン講義](https://www.gakushuin.ac.jp/~881791/OL/indexJ.html)

## ウェビナー動画

### （集中）講義

- [田崎晴明，「非平衡統計力学入門：現代的な視点から」](https://www.gakushuin.ac.jp/~881791/OL/ne/j/index.html)
- [Tomohiro Tanogami, "Thermal noise effects on turbulence"](https://www2.yukawa.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~hydro-2024/program.html) 2024
  - 「ゆらぐ流体」ワークショップでの田之上さんの講義（2.5時間）

### セミナー

- [Guido Boffetta - Time Irreversibility in Turbulence (TSVP Talk at OIST)](https://youtu.be/Tpe3h3QsXK0?si=2b6FdYcfNWauUxvu) 2022
- [R. Kerswell - Extracting Order from Disorder : Periodic Orbits Buried in Fluid Turbulence](https://youtu.be/xh-beI4SMEg?si=HjkEaDvtjw4YhuL7) 2019

Commit message:

webinar: add 'Curso: Hidden Symmetries in Fluid Dynamics' & '100 Years of Turbulent Cascades'

webinar.md, after:

# ウェビナー

## YouTubeチャンネル

- [Australasian Fluid Mechanics Society Inc](https://www.youtube.com/@australasianfluidmechanics6391)
  - [Australasian Fluid Mechanics Society](https://www.afms.org.au/)（オーストラリア流体力学会）が主催するウェビナー
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [LMFL Fluid Mechanics Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/@lmflfluidmechanicswebinar2801)
  - フランスのリールにある[Laboratoire de Mécanique des Fluides de Lille](https://lmfl.cnrs.fr/)が主催するウェビナー
  - おすすめ：_TBA_

## 再生リスト

- [Curso: Hidden Symmetries in Fluid Dynamics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLo4jXE-LdDTQvCiCQ_KeJWeiiHzfxesSH) 2024
  - [Alexei A. Mailybaev](https://alexei.impa.br/)と[Simon Thalabard](https://sites.google.com/site/simthalabard/)による集中講義
- [100 Years of Turbulent Cascades](https://univ-cotedazur.eu/events/turbulence-semester/summer-school) 2023
  - フランスのニースで開催された乱流カスケードに関するサマースクール
  - 荒木が参加していました（が，博論を書きながらだったのであまり集中して聞けていなかった）
  - [講義動画](https://mycore.core-cloud.net/index.php/s/7vAm99IV3RDl3tn)※パスワードつき
    - Eberhard Bodenschatz (MPIDS, Göttingen) - Experimental techniques in turbulence measurements.
    - Laurent Chevillard (ENS Lyon) - The phenomenology of fluid turbulence, and its stochastic representation.
    - Benjamin Favier (IRPHE - Aix-Marseille University) - Turbulence in geophysical fluid dynamics.
    - Franco Flandoli (Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa) - Stochastic fluid mechanics and Boussinesq hypothesis.
    - Alessandra Lanotte (CNR NANOTEC and INFN, Lecce) - Breakup of small particles in turbulent flows.
    - Alexei Mailybaev (IMPA, Rio de Janeiro) - Turbulence predictability and spontaneous stochasticity.
- [Boulder Summer School 2022](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8mMEmoXNBfaFV2wA4lDD7j_f2l7BTYIV) 2022
  - アメリカのコロラド州にあるUniversity of Colorado, Boulderで毎年開催されるサマースクール[BSS Physics School](https://boulderschool.yale.edu/)の2022年版"[Hydrodynamics Across Scales](https://boulderschool.yale.edu/2022/boulder-school-2022)"
  - 荒木が参加していました
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Congress A tale of Mathematics & Physics - A tribute to Krzysztof Gawedzki](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLsRJsYVVgsN_AgXJJ0GmmAwi1A07_Rat) 2022
  - [ENS Lyon](https://www.ens-lyon.fr/en/)で開催された spontaneous stochasticityを見出した物理学者Krzysztof Gawedzkiの追悼ワークショップ
  - [[CONGRESS] Gregory Eyink (JHU) - What is Spontaneous Stochasticity and How Far Do We Understand It?](https://youtu.be/L-pTgI0ygxI?si=DUHgvVaiYHFaCRPs)
- [Data-Driven Fluid Mechanics](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKCfRadWZy1w7O6B0NnvZpaCy9Kp6zmwC) 2020
  - ベルギーにある[von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics](https://www.vki.ac.be/)が開催したデータ駆動形流体力学のワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Fluids Day 2020](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL04QVxpjcnjjeIf7nQyd1CBXgP_PxqwTc) 2020
  - [International Centre for Theoretical Sciences](https://www.icts.res.in/)が開催したワークショップ
- [Turbulence: Problems at The Interface of Mathematics and Physics (Online)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL04QVxpjcnjiPcslEk4LiGJQv7c20pwn6) 2020
  - [International Centre for Theoretical Sciences](https://www.icts.res.in/)が開催したワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [Workshop on Turbulence](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLdDZb3TwJPZ6ZGs1PeZXeRywpffWH9NVZ) 2020
  - [Institute for Advanced Study](https://www.ias.edu/)（プリンストン高等研究所）が主催したオンラインワークショップ
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [New Challenges in Turbulence Research V](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLo9ufcrEqwWFN9bB03xKpwQKeWRKWDMFT) 2019
  - フランスのモンブランの麓のLes Houchesで開催される[Ecole de Physique des Houches](https://www.houches-school-physics.com/ecole-de-physique-des-houches/home-ecole-les-houches-1066564.kjsp)の2019年版"[New Challenges in Turbulence Research V](https://nctr.eu/index.php/en/2019-edition/96-program-speakers-2019)"
  - これ以外の回の講義資料は[公式サイト](https://nctr.eu/index.php/en/)からダウンロードできる．動画が公開されているのは2019年開催の第5回のみっぽい？
  - おすすめ：_TBA_
- [田崎晴明によるオンライン講義](https://www.gakushuin.ac.jp/~881791/OL/indexJ.html)

## ウェビナー動画

### （集中）講義

- [田崎晴明，「非平衡統計力学入門：現代的な視点から」](https://www.gakushuin.ac.jp/~881791/OL/ne/j/index.html)
- [Tomohiro Tanogami, "Thermal noise effects on turbulence"](https://www2.yukawa.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~hydro-2024/program.html) 2024
  - 「ゆらぐ流体」ワークショップでの田之上さんの講義（2.5時間）

### セミナー

- [Guido Boffetta - Time Irreversibility in Turbulence (TSVP Talk at OIST)](https://youtu.be/Tpe3h3QsXK0?si=2b6FdYcfNWauUxvu) 2022
- [R. Kerswell - Extracting Order from Disorder : Periodic Orbits Buried in Fluid Turbulence](https://youtu.be/xh-beI4SMEg?si=HjkEaDvtjw4YhuL7) 2019
